DOCS-3909 Browser Test Steps and Multistep API Test Edits (#14953)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/browser_tests/actions.md

---
title: Browser Test Steps
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to automatically record and manually set steps in a browser test recording.
aliases:

> - /synthetics/guide/email-validation

Reviewer: ?

Author: I incorporated the Email Validation guide into the Browser Tests doc page.

## Overview

Steps are a series of actions that you can record for a browser test and edit or build on. To define the steps you want your browser test to execute, either directly record them with the Datadog test recorder extension or add them manually. Every step includes a set of configurable [advanced options][1].

> The default timeout for each step is approximately 60 seconds. You can override this default timeout through the dedicated [timeout option][2]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default timeout for each step is 60 seconds. You can override this default timeout through the dedicated [timeout option][2]. 
```

> ## Manage step order

Reviewer: Why should it be the first section of the page?

Author: move this above use variables section

> Instead of having to reorder new steps manually by dragging and dropping individual steps, you can set a cursor on a test step at a particular stage in your recording and insert additional steps before the step. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of manually reordering new steps by dragging and dropping individual steps, you can set a cursor on a test step at a particular stage in your recording and insert additional steps. 
```

1. Hover over a recorded test step and click the **Set Cursor** icon. A blue line appears above your test step. 
2. Record additional [test steps](#automatically-recorded-steps) or add [steps manually](#manually-added-steps).

> 3. When you are done adding additional steps above your tests step, click **Clear Cursor** to exit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. When you complete adding additional steps above your tests step, click **Clear Cursor** to exit.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/recording_cursor_step.mp4" alt="Set the cursor on a test step to add additional steps before this step" video="true" width="100%" >}}

## Automatically recorded steps

Once you click **Start Recording**, the [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] automatically detects and records steps on your website.

### Click

> Interacting with elements on your page records a step on the left corner. 

Reviewer: I really do not think we should say "on the left corner".
It doesn't bring much and I feel it a bit confusing

Author: ```suggestion
Interacting with elements on your page records a step. 
```

> Interacting with elements on your page records a step on the left hand corner. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interacting with elements on your page records a step on the left corner. 
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/click_step.mp4" alt="Click type dropdown menu in the Click step type" video="true" width="60%" >}}

Click on the step and select a click type you want the browser test to perform at execution time:

* Primary click corresponding to a left click
* Double click
* Contextual click corresponding to a right click

### Type text

> Datadog records steps you perform on your application, such as selecting an option from a `select` dropdown menu, and a recap appears as a step on the left corner.

Reviewer: explaining that what we show on the left corner is  a recap, why not 

Wouldn't it be "left panel" ?

Author: ```suggestion
Datadog records steps you perform on your application, such as selecting an option from a `select` dropdown menu, and a recap appears as a step.
```

> Steps that you perform on your application such as typing or inputting text into forms and fields on your website are recorded by Datadog and a recap appears as a step on the left hand corner. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog records steps you perform on your application, such as selecting an option from a `select` dropdown menu, and a recap appears as a step on the left corner.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/input_text.mp4" alt="Browser Test Input Text Step" video="true" width="95%" >}}

### Select option

> Steps that you perform on your application such as selecting an option from a `select` dropdown menu are recorded by Datadog and a recap appears as a step on the left hand corner. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog records steps you perform on your application, such as selecting an option from a `select` dropdown menu, and a recap appears as a step on the left corner. 
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/select_options.png" alt="Select options step" style="width:70%;" >}}

### Upload file

To record an **Upload** step, either:

* Open your desktop from the browser
* Drag and drop your file in the recording iframe

> Steps that you perform on your application such as uploading are recorded by Datadog and a recap appears as a step on the left hand corner. You can upload up to 10 files with a limit of 5MB each.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog records steps you perform on your application, such as uploading, and a recap appears as a step in the left corner. You can upload up to 10 files with a limit of 5MB each.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/upload_file_step.png" alt="Create an upload file step" style="width:70%;" >}}

## Manually added steps

> You can manually add and arrange steps on the left hand corner of the browser test recording.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can manually add and arrange steps on the left corner of the browser test recording.
```

### Assertion

Assertions allow you to validate that your browser test is in the state you expect it to be in at any point of a simulated user journey. 

To confirm your test ends in an expected state, you must end your browser tests with an **assertion**.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_assertions.png" alt="Options for assertions in a browser test step" style="width:70%;" >}}

> Some assertions are performed on the active page, which refers to the page that the user last interacted with such as a **click** or an **assertion** on a page element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some assertions validate the active page, the page the user last interacted with, such as a **click** or an **assertion** on a page element.
```

Datadog recommends using the two assertions listed above for better accuracy. For more information, see [Advanced Options][1].

[1]: /synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options#user-specified-locator
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Test Active Page Content" %}}

#### Test that some text is not present on the active page

Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that the text you specified in the `Value` field is **not** present on the current page being recorded.

#### Test that some text is present on the active page

Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that the text you specified in the `Value` field is present on the current page being recorded.

#### Test the content of the URL of the active page

Create this assertion step to have your browser test verify that the URL of the last page that was interacted with contains a value you specified.

You can test for a value in the URL such as `string`, `number`, or `regex`.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Special Assertions" %}}

#### Test that an email was received

> Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that your application's email mechanisms are working and verify that the values you specified such as `string`, `number`, or `regex` are present in the email subject or body. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that your application's email mechanisms are working and verify that the values you specified, such as `string`, `number`, or `regex`, are present in the email subject or body. 
```

For more information, see [Email Validation with Browser Tests][1].

#### Test your UI with custom JavaScript

Create this assertion step to test a custom assertion on the active page using your JavaScript code. JavaScript assertions support both synchronous and asynchronous code. Because browser tests load external JavaScript by adding the script to the page, they only work if your website accepts external JavaScript.

The JavaScript assertion function contains the following parameters and requires a return statement.

> * The `return` (mandatory) statement reflects the condition the assertion needs to meet in order for your test step to succeed. Any type can be returned, but the value is automatically casted as a boolean.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `return` (mandatory) statement reflects the condition the assertion needs to meet for your test step to succeed. Any type can be returned, but the value is automatically cast as a boolean.
```
I think in this case, "casted" either should be "cast" or "cased". "Casted" is not a word unless I am missing product specific context here.

## Automatically recorded steps

Once you click **Start Recording**, the [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] automatically detects and records steps on your website.

### Click

Interacting with elements on your page records a step on the left hand corner. 

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/click_step.mp4" alt="Click type dropdown menu in the Click step type" video="true" width="60%" >}}

Click on the step and select a click type you want the browser test to perform at execution time:

* Primary click corresponding to a left click
* Double click
* Contextual click corresponding to a right click

### Type text

Typing or inputting text into fields on your website such as forms or text areas records a step on the left hand corner.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/input_text.mp4" alt="Browser Test Input Text Step" video="true" width="95%" >}}

### Select option

Selecting an option from a `select` dropdown menu records a step on the left hand corner.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/select_options.png" alt="Select options step" style="width:70%;" >}}

### Upload file

> Uploading a file records a step on the left hand corner. You can upload up to 10 files with a limit of 5MB each.

Reviewer: Not a big fan to say we record on the left hand corner.
Steps you perform on your apps are recorded in DD and we show the recap of the recording on the left hand corner. but saying we record it in the left hand corner feels a bit weird to me

* Open your desktop from the browser
* Drag and drop your file in the recording iframe

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/upload_file_step.png" alt="Create an upload file step" style="width:70%;" >}}

## Manually added steps

You can manually add and arrange steps on the left hand corner of the browser test recording.

### Assertion

Assertions allow you to validate that your browser test is in the state you expect it to be in at any point of a simulated user journey. 

To confirm your test ends in an expected state, you must end your browser tests with an **Assertion**.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_assertions.png" alt="Options for assertions in a browser test step" style="width:70%;" >}}

Some assertions are performed on the active page, which refers to the page that the user last interacted with such as a **Click** or an **Assertion** on a page element.

To create an assertion step, select an assertion type:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Test An Element On The Active Page" %}}

#### Test an element's content

Create this assertion step to have your browser test select a page element and check if it contains a specific value. 

> You can specify that the content `should equal`, `should not equal`, `should contain`, `should not contain`, `should start with`, `should not start with`, `should match regex`, `should be empty`, `should not be empty`, `should be greater than`, `should be greater than or equal`, `should be less than`, or `should be less than or equal` a given value.

Reviewer: feels a bit too much here. we can go without it it will still be clear

> To save the assertion, click **Apply**. You can select a `div` that `should contain` the word `hello` as a given value.

Reviewer: To save the assertion, click **Apply**.
probably not necessary

#### Test an element's attribute

Create this assertion step to have your browser test select a page element and check if one of its attributes matches the expected content. 

> Enter a name for the page attribute. You can specify that the content `should equal`, `should not equal`, `should contain`, `should not contain`, `should start with`, `should not start with`, `should match regex`, `should be empty`, `should not be empty`, `should be greater than`, `should be greater than or equal`, `should be less than`, or `should be less than or equal` a given value.

Reviewer: same

> To save the assertion, click **Apply**. You can test that a `src` attribute value matches the path of the expected image.

Reviewer: To save the assertion, click **Apply**.
probably not necessary

> #### Test that an element is present

Reviewer: add something like in this section
we recommend you to use the 2 previous assertions that by their nature are more accurate

Create this assertion step to have your browser test select a page element such as a specific `span`, `div`, `h`, or `a`, and confirm that it is present on the page.

Set the user locator to ensure the browser test targets the correct element by selecting `CSS` or `XPath 1.0` from the dropdown menu and adding a selector. Click **Test**. 

To save the assertion, click **Apply**. For more information, see [Advanced Options][1].

[1]: /synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options#user-specified-locator
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Test Active Page Content" %}}

#### Test that some text is not present on the active page

Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that the text you specified in the `Value` field is **not** present on the current page being recorded.

> To save the assertion, click **Apply**.

Reviewer: idem

#### Test that some text is present on the active page

Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that the text you specified in the `Value` field is present on the current page being recorded.

> To save the assertion, click **Apply**.

Reviewer: idem

#### Test the content of the URL of the active page

> Create this assertion step to have your browser test take the URL of the last page that a user interacted with and verify whether a value you specified is present in the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create this assertion step to have your browser test verify the URL of the last page interacted with contains a value you specified.
```

Reviewer: no user as this is a browser test ;)

> Enter a name for the step. You can specify that the content `should equal`, `should not equal`, `should contain`, `should not contain`, `should start with`, `should not start with`, `should match regex`, `should be empty`, `should not be empty`, `should be greater than`, `should be greater than or equal`, `should be less than`, or `should be less than or equal` a given value.

Reviewer: not needed

To save the assertion, click **Apply**. You can test for a value in the URL such as `string`, `number`, or `regex`.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Special Assertions" %}}

#### Test that an email was received

Web application journeys often involve emails being triggered and sent to users' mailboxes, such as an email verification after account creation, email sent to reset forgotten passwords, email sent to notify order confirmation, or email confirmation after contact form submission.

> Create this assertion step to have your browser test confirm that your application's email mechanisms are working and verify that the values you specified such as `string`, `number`, or `regex` are present in the email subject or body. 

Reviewer: I feel it is too much in this doc page.
let's keep a concise summary of the feature and have a link to a dedicated guide. 
it will also make this more discoverable as a standalone page will exist

return jQuery().jquery.startsWith('3.5.1')
```

> To handle login security questions with custom JavaScript, you can either:

Author: This content was originally intended to be added in https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-3155 and are included in the Doc Wishlist (https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SYN/pages/711459412/External+Documentation+Improvements)!

> To handle login security questions with custom JavaScript, you can either:

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what are security questions in fact

> To handle login security questions with custom JavaScript, you can either:

Author: remove this section up to line 169 about checking values

- Manage everything in the JavaScript assertion by reading the security question and inputting the variable
- Create a [JavaScript variable](#javascript) and a regular browser [`type text` step](#type-text)

> You can also check that the value returned by a JavaScript step is the one you are expecting by running the test or executing JavaScript in the console. 

Author: This is also on the Doc Wishlist, we can remove it if you want!

> You can also check that the value returned by a JavaScript step is the one you are expecting by running the test or executing JavaScript in the console. 

Author: we are keeping this one

#### Test a downloaded file

Create this assertion step to have your browser test verify that files have been downloaded in previous steps. You can check that a file was correctly downloaded and assert on the file name, size, and MD5 value.

> - If a test does not contain an assertion on the response body, the body payload drops and returns an associated response time for the request within the timeout limit set by the Synthetics Worker.

Author: Thanks for clarifying!

#### Refresh a page

Create this navigation step to have your browser test refresh the current page of the recording.

#### Go to an email and click on a link

Once you have [created an email variable](#test-that-an-email-was-received), create this navigation step to have your browser test access unique Synthetic mail inboxes.

Select the email and links you want the browser test to click on. This step brings you to the corresponding page and allows you to move on with the rest of your journey from that specific page.

#### Follow a specific link

Create this navigation step to have your browser test go to a specific page. You must prepend your URLs with `http` or `https` in the **Enter link URL** box.

### Special actions

You can use the [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] to record and monitor most steps associated with user journeys. However, some steps such as **Hover**, **Press Key**, **Scroll**, and **Wait** are not recorded automatically. 

Create this assertion step manually by clicking **Special Actions** and selecting an action type.

#### Hover

> To avoid generating a step for every time a user hovers over an element during recording, this step uses a dedicated step with a click, not a hovering mechanism.

Reviewer: "this step uses a dedicated step with a click, not a hovering mechanism."

not super clear here, maybe something closer to the original sentence?

Author: I found the original sentence to be a little confusing and unclear 😅

Reviewer: To avoid generating a step at each element hovering during recording, this browser test step is not added through an actual hovering mechanism. We require you to use this dedicated step.

Author: (y)

> Select **Hover** and click on an element on the recorder page to add a step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **Hover** and click on an element to add a step.
```

#### Press key

Add a **Press Key** step to simulate users entering keystrokes. The [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] can record the following keys:

* Enter
* Arrows (up, down, right, and left)
* Tab (outside a form)
* Escape
* Backspace

> To press keys that are not automatically recorded, specify the values that need to be pressed in the **Value** field. Select `Alt`, `Control`, `Meta`, and `Shift` modifiers to add to the inputted value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To press keys that are not automatically recorded, specify the values that need to be pressed in the **Value** field. 
 
 Select `Alt`, `Control`, `Meta`, and `Shift` modifiers to add to the inputted value.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_press_key.png" alt="Press Key step in a browser test recording" style="width:50%;" >}}

#### Scroll

Browser tests automatically scroll to the elements that need to be interacted with. In most cases, you do not need to manually add a scroll step. Use the scroll step when you need to trigger an additional interaction such as an infinite scroll.

Specify the number of pixels you want the browser test to scroll vertically and horizontally.

> {{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_scroll_step.png" alt="Scroll step in a browser test recording Test Scroll Step" style="width:50%;" >}}

Reviewer: can we have the same screesnhot but with the "target element" empty please

return jQuery().jquery.startsWith('3.5.1')
```

To handle login security questions with custom JavaScript, you can either:

- Manage everything in the JavaScript assertion by reading the security question and inputting the variable
- Create a [JavaScript variable](#javascript) and a regular browser [`type text` step](#type-text)

> You can also check that the value returned by a JavaScript step is the one you are expecting by running the test or executing JavaScript in the console. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also check that the value returned by a JavaScript step is what you expect by running the test or executing JavaScript in the console. 
```
(in case you don't end up removing this)

#### Test a downloaded file

> Create this assertion step to have your browser test verify that files have been downloaded in previous steps. You can check that a file was correctly downloaded and assert on the file name, size, and MD5 value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create this assertion step to have your browser test verify the downloaded files from the previous steps. You can check that a file was correctly downloaded and assert the file name, size, and MD5 value.
```

For more information about how to test downloads, see [Test File Upload and Download][3].

[1]: /synthetics/guide/email-validation
[2]: /synthetics/browser_tests/actions#use-variables
[3]: /synthetics/guide/testing-file-upload-and-download/#testing-a-file-download
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Navigation

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/navigation_step.png" alt="Choose between three navigation types in a browser test recording" style="width:60%;" >}}

#### Refresh a page

Create this navigation step to have your browser test refresh the current page of the recording.

#### Go to an email and click on a link

Once you have [created an email variable](#test-that-an-email-was-received), create this navigation step to have your browser test access unique Synthetic mail inboxes.

Select the email and links you want the browser test to click on. This step brings you to the corresponding page and allows you to move on with the rest of your journey from that specific page.

#### Follow a specific link

Create this navigation step to have your browser test go to a specific page. You must prepend your URLs with `http` or `https` in the **Enter link URL** box.

### Special actions

> You can use the [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] to record and monitor most steps associated with user journeys. However, some steps such as **Hover**, **Press Key**, **Scroll**, and **Wait** are not recorded automatically. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] to record and monitor most steps associated with user journeys. However, the extension does not automatically record some steps such as **Hover**, **Press Key**, **Scroll**, and **Wait**.
```

Create this assertion step manually by clicking **Special Actions** and selecting an action type.

#### Hover

> To avoid generating a step for every time a user hovers over an element during recording, this step uses a dedicated step with a click, not a hovering mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This step uses a dedicated click, not a hovering mechanism, to avoid generating a separate step every time a user hovers over an element during recording.
```

Select **Hover** and click on an element to add a step.

#### Press key

Add a **Press Key** step to simulate users entering keystrokes. The [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] can record the following keys:

* Enter
* Arrows (up, down, right, and left)
* Tab (outside a form)
* Escape
* Backspace

To press keys that are not automatically recorded, specify the values that need to be pressed in the **Value** field. 
 
 Select `Alt`, `Control`, `Meta`, and `Shift` modifiers to add to the inputted value.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_press_key.png" alt="Press Key step in a browser test recording" style="width:50%;" >}}

#### Scroll

> Browser tests automatically scroll to the elements that need to be interacted with. In most cases, you do not need to manually add a scroll step. Use the scroll step when you need to trigger an additional interaction such as an infinite scroll.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Browser tests automatically scroll to the elements that need to be interacted with. In most cases, you do not need to add a scroll step manually. Use the scroll step when you need to trigger an additional interaction, such as an infinite scroll.
```

Specify the number of pixels you want the browser test to scroll vertically and horizontally.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_scroll_step.png" alt="Scroll step in a browser test recording Test Scroll Step" style="width:50%;" >}}

By default, the **Scroll** step scrolls through the entire page. If you need to scroll on a specific element (for example, a specific `<div>`), click **Target Element** and select an element you want the browser test to scroll on.

#### Wait

> By default, browser tests wait for a page to fully loaded before performing a step or the next step with a timeout of 60 seconds. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, browser tests wait for a page to be fully loaded before performing a step or the next step with a timeout of 60 seconds. 
```

> If you know that a page or page element takes more than 60 seconds to load, you can customize the timeout in the your step's [advanced options][2] or add a hardcoded wait step with a max value of 300 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you know that a page or page element takes more than 60 seconds to load, you can customize the timeout in the step's [advanced options][2] or add a hardcoded wait step with a max value of 300 seconds.
```

#### Refresh a page

Create this navigation step to have your browser test refresh the current page of the recording.

To save this navigation step, click **Save Navigation Step**.

#### Go to an email and click on a link

Once you have [created an email variable](#test-that-an-email-was-received), create this navigation step to have your browser test access unique Synthetic mail inboxes.

Select the email and links you want the browser test to click on. This step brings you to the corresponding page and allows you to move on with the rest of your journey from that specific page.

#### Follow a specific link

Create this navigation step to have your browser test go to a specific page. You must prepend your URLs with `http` or `https` in the **Enter link URL** box.

To save this navigation step, click **Save Navigation Step**.

### Special actions

You can use the [Datadog browser test recorder extension][3] to record and monitor most steps associated with user journeys. However, some steps such as **Hover**, **Press Key**, **Scroll**, and **Wait** are not recorded automatically. 

> Create this assertion step manually by clicking on **Special Actions** and selecting an action.

Author: ```suggestion
Create this assertion step manually by clicking **Special Actions** and selecting an action.
```

#### Element

> Create a variable from content such as a `span` or `div` by extracting the text of the element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a variable from content such as a `span` or `div` by extracting the element's text.
```

#### JavaScript

> Write the custom JavaScript code that returns the value you want your variable to be assigned to. JavaScript steps support both synchronous and asynchronous code. Because browser tests load external JavaScript by adding the script to the page, they only work if your website accepts external JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify what "Write the custom JavaScript code that returns the value you want your variable to be assigned to." means? I am not sure how you would write the code with the response that you want. Seems like it needs context or clarification

Author: ```suggestion
JavaScript steps support both synchronous and asynchronous code. Because browser tests load external JavaScript by adding the script to the page, they only work if your website accepts external JavaScript.
```

The JavaScript function comes with the following parameters and requires a return statement.

> * The `return` (mandatory) statement returns the value you want to associate to your JavaScript variable. Any type can be returned, but the value is automatically casted as a string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `return` (mandatory) statement returns the value you want to associate with your JavaScript variable. The statement can return any type but automatically casts the value as a string.
```

#### Element

Create a variable from content such as a `span` or `div` by extracting the text of the element.

> Add a variable name and click **Select Element**. Selecting an element on the recorder page records a test step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

return jQuery().jquery.startsWith('3.5.1')
```

#### Global variable

Select any global variables defined in [Synthetic Monitoring Settings][4].

#### Global variable - MFA

Select any MFA global variables defined in [Synthetic Monitoring Settings][4].

This type of global variable stores time-based one time password (TOTP) secret keys, allowing you to test your MFA modules and MFA-protected workflows. For more information, see [TOTPs For Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) In Browser Tests][5].

#### Email

> Create a Datadog Synthetics email address that you can use in test steps to [assert if an email sent correctly](#test-that-an-email-was-received) or [navigate to a link in the email](#go-to-an-email-and-click-on-a-link), for example, to click on a confirmation link. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a Datadog Synthetics email address that you can use in test steps to [assert if an email was sent correctly](#test-that-an-email-was-received) or [navigate to a link in the email](#go-to-an-email-and-click-on-a-link), for example, to click on a confirmation link.
```

> To avoid conflicts between test runs, a unique mailbox is generated at each test execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A unique mailbox is generated at each test execution to avoid conflicts between test runs.
```

### Subtests

You can run browser tests within other browser tests to reuse existing workflows up to two levels of nesting.

To override variables from subtests in parent tests, ensure the variables created at the parent test level have the same names as the variables present in the subtest. The variable always uses the value that was first assigned to it.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/subtest.png" alt="Browser Test Subtest" style="width:60%;" >}}

> To convert steps from your current browser test into a subtest, select your recorded steps and click **Convert to Subtest**. By default, the subtest executes in sequence with the previous steps of the parent test. You can select to play the subtest in a **Main**, **New**, **One** (first), **Two** (second), or **Three** (third) window which can be reused in the [**advanced options**][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert steps from your current browser test into a subtest, select your recorded steps from the **Extract From Steps** tab and click **Convert to Subtest**. By default, the subtest executes in sequence with the previous steps of the parent test. You can select to play the subtest in a **Main**, **New**, **One** (first), **Two** (second), or **Three** (third) window which can be reused in the [**advanced options**][6].
```

return jQuery().jquery.startsWith('3.5.1')
```

#### Global variable

> Select any global variables defined in [Synthetic Monitoring Settings][4] to add to your browser test's recording and click **Ok**. The local variable(s) defined from global variables appear above your test steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select any global variables defined in [Synthetic Monitoring Settings][4].
```

Reviewer: let's stay simple :)

#### Global variable - MFA

> Select any MFA global variables defined in [Synthetic Monitoring Settings][4] to add to your browser test's recording and click **Ok**. The local variable(s) defined from MFA global variables appear above your test steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select any MFA global variables defined in [Synthetic Monitoring Settings][4].
```

This type of global variable stores time-based one time password (TOTP) secret keys, allowing you to test your MFA modules and MFA-protected workflows. For more information, see [TOTPs For Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) In Browser Tests][5].

#### Email

Create a Datadog Synthetics email address that you can use in test steps to [assert if an email sent correctly](#test-that-an-email-was-received) or [navigate to a link in the email](#go-to-an-email-and-click-on-a-link), for example, to click on a confirmation link. 

> To avoid conflicts between test runs, a unique mailbox generates at each test execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid conflicts between test runs, a unique mailbox is generated at each test execution.
```

### Subtests

You can run browser tests within other browser tests to reuse existing workflows up to two levels of nesting.

> Variables from subtests may be overridden in parent tests. Ensure the variables created at the parent test level have the same names as the variables present in the subtest. The variable always uses the value that was first assigned to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override variables from subtests in parent tests, ensure the variables created at the parent test level have the same names as the variables present in the subtest. The variable always uses the value that was first assigned to it.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/subtest.png" alt="Browser Test Subtest" style="width:60%;" >}}

> To convert steps from your current browser test into a subtest, select your recorded steps and click **Convert to Subtest**. By default, the subtest executes in sequence with the previous steps of the parent test. You can select  to play the subtest in a **Main**, **New**, **One** (first), **Two** (second), or **Three** (third) window which can be reused in the [**advanced options**][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert steps from your current browser test into a subtest, select your recorded steps and click **Convert to Subtest**. By default, the subtest executes in sequence with the previous steps of the parent test. You can select to play the subtest in a **Main**, **New**, **One** (first), **Two** (second), or **Three** (third) window which can be reused in the [**advanced options**][6].
```

1. Select a **Method** and **URL** to query. Choose between `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `PUT`, `HEAD`, `DELETE`, and `OPTIONS`.
2. Optionally, specify **Advanced Options**:
   
   {{< tabs >}}

   {{% tab "Request Options" %}}

   * **Follow redirects**: Tick to have your HTTP test follow up to ten redirects when performing the request.
   * **Ignore server certificate error**: Tick to have your HTTP test go on with connection even if there are errors when validating the SSL certificate.
   * **Request headers**: Define headers to add to your HTTP request. You can also override the default headers (for example, the `user-agent` header).
   * **Cookies**: Define cookies to add to your HTTP request. Set multiple cookies using the format `<COOKIE_NAME1>=<COOKIE_VALUE1>; <COOKIE_NAME2>=<COOKIE_VALUE2>`.

   {{% /tab %}}

   {{% tab "Authentication" %}}

   * **Client certificate**: Authenticate through mTLS by uploading your client certificate and the associated private key.
   * **HTTP Basic Auth**: Add HTTP basic authentication credentials.
   * **Digest Auth**: Add Digest authentication credentials. 
   * **NTLM**: Add NTLM authentication credentials. Support both NTLMv2 and NTLMv1.

>    * **AWS Signature v4**: Enter your Access Key ID and Secret Access Key. Datadog generates the signature for your request. This option uses the basic implementation of SigV4. Specific signatures such as AWS S3 are not supported out-of-the box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * **AWS Signature v4**: Enter your Access Key ID and Secret Access Key. Datadog generates the signature for your request. This option uses the basic implementation of SigV4. Specific signatures such as AWS S3 are not supported out-of-the-box.
```

   For “Single Chunk” transfer requests to AWS S3 buckets, add `x-amz-content-sha256` containing the sha256-encoded body of the request as a header.

   {{% /tab %}}

   {{% tab "Query Parameters" %}}

   * **Encode parameters**: Add the name and value of query parameters that require encoding. 

   {{% /tab %}}

   {{% tab "Request Body" %}}

   * **Body type**: Select the type of the request body (`text/plain`, `application/json`, `text/xml`, `text/html`, `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, `GraphQL`, or `None`) you want to add to your HTTP request.
   * **Request body**: Add the content of your HTTP request body. The request body is limited to a maximum size of 50 kilobytes.

   {{% /tab %}}

   {{% tab "Proxy" %}}

   * **Proxy URL**: Specify the URL of the proxy the HTTP request should go through (`http://<YOUR_USER>:<YOUR_PWD>@<YOUR_IP>:<YOUR_PORT>`).
   * **Proxy Header**: Add headers to include in the HTTP request to the proxy.

   {{% /tab %}}
  
   {{% tab "Privacy" %}}

>    * **Do not save response body**: Select this option to prevent the response body from being saved at runtime. This is helpful to ensure no sensitive data is displayed in your test results, but it can make failure troubleshooting more difficult. For information about security recommendations, see [Synthetic Monitoring Data Security][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * **Do not save response body**: Select this option to prevent the response body from being saved at runtime. This helps ensure no sensitive data is displayed in your test results, but it can make failure troubleshooting more difficult. For full security recommendations, see [Synthetic Monitoring Data Security][1].
```

[1]: /data_security/synthetics
   {{% /tab %}}

   {{< /tabs >}}
   </br>
3. Click **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. A response preview appears.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/http_request2.png" alt="Make HTTP Request" style="width:80%;" >}}

#### Add assertions

> Assertions define what an expected test result is. After you click **Test URL**, basic assertions on `status code`, `response time`, and `header` `content-type` are added based on the test response. Assumptions are optional in browser tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assertions define what an expected test result is. After you click **Test URL**, basic assertions on `status code`, `response time`, and `header` `content-type` are added based on the test response. Assertions are optional for HTTP steps in browser tests.
```

> Assertions define what an expected test result is. After you click **Test URL**, basic assertions on `status code`, `response time`, and `header` `content-type` are added based on the response that was obtained. Assumptions are optional in browser tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assertions define what an expected test result is. After you click **Test URL**, basic assertions on `status code`, `response time`, and `header` `content-type` are added based on the test response. Assumptions are optional in browser tests.
```

- If a test does not contain an assertion on the response body, the body payload drops and returns an associated response time for the request within the timeout limit set by the Synthetics Worker.

- If a test contains an assertion on the response body and the timeout limit is reached, an `Assertions on the body/response cannot be run beyond this limit` error appears.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/assertions.png" alt="Define assertions for your browser test to succeed or fail on" style="width:80%;" >}}

You can create up to 20 assertions per step by clicking **New Assertion** or by clicking directly on the response preview.

#### Extract a variable from the response

Optionally, extract a variable from the response of your HTTP request by parsing its response headers or body. The value of the variable updates each time the HTTP request step runs.

To start parsing a variable, click **Extract a variable from response content**:

1. Enter a **Variable Name**. Your variable name can only use uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores and must have at least three characters.

> 2. Decide whether to extract your variable from the response headers, from the response body, or using the full response body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Decide whether to extract your variable from the response headers, or from the response body.
```

   * Extract the value from **response header**: use the full response header of your HTTP request as the variable value or parse it with a [`regex`][10].
   * Extract the value from **response body**: use the full response body of your HTTP request as the variable value, parse it with a [`regex`][10], a [`JSONPath`][8], or a [`XPath`][9].

>    * Extract the value using the **full response body**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To start parsing a variable, click **Extract a variable from response content**:

1. Enter a **Variable Name**. Your variable name can only use uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores and must have at least three characters.
2. Decide whether to extract your variable from the response headers, from the response body, or using the full response body.

   * Extract the value from **response header**: use the full response header of your HTTP request as the variable value or parse it with a [`regex`][10].
   * Extract the value from **response body**: use the full response body of your HTTP request as the variable value, parse it with a [`regex`][10], a [`JSONPath`][8], or a [`XPath`][9].
   * Extract the value using the **full response body**.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/extracted_variable.png" alt="Extracted variable from response" style="width:80%;" >}}

You can extract up to ten variables per test step. Once created, this variable can be used in the [following steps](#use-variables) of your browser test.

## Use variables

To see all available variables on manually added steps, type `{{` in the input field.

> To use a variable on automatically recorded steps, click the **Inject this variable** icon to input the variable value in the recorder page while recording. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a variable on automatically recorded steps, click the **Inject this variable** icon to input the variable value while recording. 
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/variable_input.mp4" alt="Click on the test step to inject the value in your recorder page" video="true" width="100%" >}}

If a variable is assigned different values along your browser test steps (for example, across subtests), the variable systematically uses the value that was first assigned to it.

Some variables only compute at runtime, such as a variable from an HTTP request or a JavaScript step. For example, assume you have a `Type text` step featuring `{{ <YOUR_VARIABLE_NAME> }}`. At test execution, `{{ <YOUR_VARIABLE_NAME> }}` is systematically replaced by your variable's associated value.

> To record a step using one of these variables, record a step with the actual variable value, and replace the actual value with `{{ <YOUR_VARIABLE_NAME> }}` in the step's definition before saving your test. 

Reviewer: can we have the last 2 paragraphes as one?
maybe we can keep a return to line but we shouldn't have 2 paragraphes
